Spyro might be my favorite series for the
original Playstation.
I loved the characters, environments and gameplay
more than just about anything on that system.
Recently, I reviewed some of the Legend of
Spyro games, which is basically a reboot of
the series that uses some of the same characters.
However, that series added in some more RPG-like
elements, and while the games were fun, I
always felt that a game like this is how Spyro
is meant to be played.
This is Spyro: A Hero’s Tail for the GameCube.
Oh, pun alert!
Tale is spelled like a dragon’s tail, yep.
I get it.
A Hero’s Tail follows Spyro and his friends
like Sparx and Ember as stones known as dark
gems are being released throughout the land
by a Red dragon that the Elders warm Spyro
about.
As Ember puts it, the gems are “pure evilness”,
and Spyro is tasked with ridding them from
the world.
You’ll also have the ability to play as
some of Spyro’s friends for certain parts
of the game, like Blink, a mole who has the
ability to dig and find secret areas and jump
on walls like a ninja.
It’s a really nice way to change up the
pace.
I was also pleasantly surprised by how funny
some of the writing could be in this game.
While the Legend of Spyro games take the series
in a bit of a darker direction, A Hero’s
Tail still feels very light-hearted, and this
is reflected in the humor of the game.
Gameplay in A Hero’s Tail actually feels
very similar to the earlier games in the series.
From the charge and fire breath to gliding,
Spyro definitely plays like you’d expect
him to.
Controls are also very tight, although I did
find it a little odd that you can’t pull
Spyro up when he’s in midair.
Instead, pulling on the analog stick just
flips him around, and this is a little weird
when you think about gliding in most games.
Platforming is great with challenging jumps
that don’t get too frustrating, and enemies
are all varied and require different attacks
to defeat.
You might need to charge at one to knock its
armor off just before killing it with a breath
of fire.
Spyro: A Hero’s Tail also features some
puzzles that may require you to, hit a few
switches to open up a series of doors, for
example.
These are also really well implemented, and
they don’t feel overused.
I also loved the visual style that the game
uses.
It’s kind of cartoony and sort of like a
painting at the same time, and there’s much
brighter color than in the recent games.
Voice acting isn’t quite as good as in the
Legend of Spyro series, especially Spyro in
particular, but Blink is hilarious with the
tone of voice he uses, as is Ember.
I think some of this might be due to the writing,
and as I said before, it’s really well done.
Although A Hero’s Tail doesn’t really
jump out as being head and shoulders above
other games in the Spyro series, it is still
really well executed addition.
I just wish Wayne Brady or David Spade were
in it.